### <a name="ca2_intelectual_property"></a>CA2: Intellectual Property

-   Minimum standard - SML2

-   Expected standard - SML3

-   Excellent standard - SML5

*SML1 - Initial usability:* Software developers have been identified and
their responsibilities have been determined. Relevant policies of
developer organisation(s) (or developers) have been reviewed for
applicability to intellectual property rights. There may be evidence of
a draft intellectual property rights agreement that would result from
cooperative activities with other developer organisations (or
developers). Rights are not specified internally in the source code or
externally in documentation. Usage rights or limitations have not been
specified.

*SML2 - Use is feasible:*

Developer organisation(s) (or developers) have an agreement that
addresses any potential conflicts in the proposed intellectual property
rights and responsibilities for development. A limited rights statement
has been drafted, and applied inconsistently in documentation and source
code. Developer organisation(s) (or developers) may be contacted to
negotiate rights for use.

*SML3 - Use is possible by most users:*

Agreements on development responsibilities, the list of developers, a
recommended citation, and intellectual property rights statements,
offering limited rights for use, are available, perhaps upon request,
for review. Developer organisations(s) (or developers) may be contacted
through a single point to obtain formal statements on restricted rights
or to negotiate additional rights.

*SML4 - Software is usable:*

There is evidence that all developer organisation(s) (or developers)
have confirmed that the list of developers, recommended citation, and
intellectual property rights statements, including limited rights for
use, in the software source code, documentation, and in the expression
of the software upon execution, conform to their institutional policies
and agreements. These include any legal language that has been approved
by all parties or their representatives, machine-readable code
expressing intellectual property, and concise statements in language
that can be understood by laypersons, such as a pre-written,
recognisable license. Brief statements are available describing limited
rights, restrictions, and conditions for use. Developer organisations(s)
(or developers) may be contacted through a single point to obtain formal
statements on restricted rights or to negotiate additional rights.

*SML5 - Demonstrable usability:* There are multiple statements embedded
into the software product describing unrestricted rights and any
conditions for use, including commercial and non-commercial use, and the
recommended citation. The list of developers is embedded in the source
code of the product, in the documentation, and in the expression of the
software upon execution. The intellectual property rights statements are
expressed in legal language, machine-readable code, and in concise
statements in language that can be understood by laypersons, such as a
pre-written, recognisable license.\
\
*[[Previous section](#ca1_documentationl)]* *[[Next section](#ca3_extensibility)]*
