---
title: "CA8: Support"
layout: page
parent: Software Maturity Levels
nav_order: 104
---

# CA8: Support

*Assessment may not be required at this stage. Minimum and expected
standard levels to be defined in a future version of this document.*

- Minimum standard - SML1

- Expected standard - SML1

- Excellent standard - SML5

*SML1 - Initial usability:* There is known contact information available
for the developer organisation(s) and there is a willingness to provide
minimal, occasional support without guarantees. It may not be possible
for an end-user to use the software without some support.

*SML2 - Use is feasible:*

The developer organisation(s) respond to reported issues with
updates/patches that are usually made available in a reasonably timely
fashion. Some support is available, but may be intermittent and without
guarantees of continuation. There is evidence of an informal user
community that provides answers, for example, via a mailing list or
bulletin board. Documentation and source code availability may be
sufficient for an experienced user (developer, operations or end-user)
to not require extensive support.

*SML3 - Use is possible by most users:*

Support is centralised in a website containing relevant resources,
answers to FAQ, other useful information and a community support
question & answer area (e.g. bulletin or message/discussion board).
There is evidence that the developer organisation(s) occasionally engage
with users in the community support area. There are regular timetabled
releases of updates/patches that are made available and urgent (perhaps
due to security issues) update/patches in a timely fashion.There is no
opportunity to obtain a support Service Level Agreement (SLA) with the
developer(s) or a third party.

*SML4 - Software is usable:*

There is organised and clearly defined support by the developer with an
email helpdesk and additional documentation such as case studies and
other detailed information for a range of user communities (developers,
operations staff, and end-users). There is explicit evidence that no
continuity of support is implied. It maybe possible to negotiate an SLA
for support, but this is not a standard offering of the developer
organisation(s).

*SML5 - Demonstrable usability:* The support by the organisation(s) is
clearly defined with frequent and timely updates, releases, etc.,
responding to the needs of the user communities, as well as
consolidation of changes by the community. There is a staffed
telephone/email helpdesk available as well as a maintained website.
Discussion groups are active and include regular input from the
developer(s) and developer organisation(s). There is evidence that
continuity of support is implied. Support may be free or fee-based via a
support Service Level Agreement (SLA) with the developer(s) or a third
party.
